one of the best performing coolers from
the first gen threader for launch was
the enter max lick tech series a strong
performer even when compared to large
air coolers from the same period we
liked the performance and felt
comfortable was recommending it based on
performance unfortunately though we now
must revoke that recommendation the
review process never allows for long
term looks at things and now we're back
for a revisit of over a dozen enter max
lick tech coolers 14 to 16 of them see
how they've aged since launch animatics
has already been replacing coolers for
free though charging shipping they say
they're not which we think charging
shipping is wrong for a broken product
so Animax knows there's an issue there
hasn't been a formal recall yet but
after our experience these coolers maybe
there should be one before that this
video is brought to you by Power color
and the rx 5700 red dragon when we
reviewed the red dragon variant of the
rx 5709 XT we found it to be capable of
strong noise normalized performance with
good thermal characteristics the Red
Dragons dual V bios gives options for
further tuning and profiling with a
price point close to reference despite
these significantly improved cooler by
the RX 5700 red dragon with its dual
axial cooler at the link in the
description below the basics then we
have 14 of these that arrived intact in
shipping one that was broken and
shipping but it's not like we've lost
anything that was dead anyway
and then we have two that we had locally
for our reviews originally and those two
are interesting because they haven't
really been used the other 15 of these
including the broken one reused in
actual systems in real environments as
opposed to review units where they get
reviewed for performance then they put
on a shelf and they pulled out every now
and then for a couple of days of work so
those were never really thermally
stressed and those are gonna be kind of
our control for what happens if these
coolers are left alone if you're not
familiar with what's going on let's
recap everything briefly the animatics
looked at cooler that came out for
thread report was the first properly
made liquid cooler for thread Ripper
when it launched the 1950 X and 1920 X
and I had a full-sized cold plate it
performed exceptionally well when
compared to other liquid coolers that
were using the more standard a Sutekh
sized cold blade that's functional and
fine for accommodating
a smaller Intel or AMD rise in IHS but
was completely inadequate for threader
per coverage so enter max looks really
good they're comparing versus Noctua and
the NH you 14 see our four model the tr4
model for it Knox was cool it looked
good but NR Max still had some
advantages in places like noise
normalize thermals we're having that
extra soak capacity of liquid was able
to help it and this isn't a discussion
about value between the two this is
purely recapping that the NR max product
by all ways of looking at it in the
review and from initial user response
seems like a completely valid legitimate
thing to purchase for threader / it did
really well that's why it's so
disappointing that from what we can tell
all of these appear to be guaranteed
failure within their service life of of
just a year to two years since they're
probably initially purchased it seems
like this is a pretty widespread issue
in fact if you just do a google search
and look for something like enter max TR
for like tech corrosion or enter max TR
for lik tech algae or enter max lik tech
tr4 overheating you'll find dozens of
posts on forum threads that explain this
exact issue were researching today so
okay here's what we did we're gonna show
you the he's probably hopefully saw some
nastiness in the intro well show us some
morning I will walk through all the
teardown and what we did is we opened
each of the coolers but before we did
that we logged each cooler for a few
things one of them we applied an
internal gamers Nexus number to track
the cooler we applied a number to the
fans and the parts that came with each
cooler so we can track where those go to
and then we logged the serial number to
look at the batch that each one came
from we logged the weight with and
without mounting hardware to give an
idea for the average Delta the the
weight difference from cooler to cooler
this was a preliminary effort to help
figure out which coolers we should pull
aside if they seem abnormally low or
abnormally heavy to look at just to
speed things up it doesn't correlate to
the amount of liquid in it once we
opened them we logged the amount of
liquid in milliliters for each cooler
and then we we identified the issues
with it so our two internal coolers were
not formally included in this testing we
have already done that a separate piece
before Computex which was in June and
now we get to get into the fun of
opening the coolers upon opening the
coolers the raw camera audio expresses
how we felt about the discovery these
coolers are disgusting we previously
opened our own and found corrosion and
degradation of the gasket that rests
atop the cold plate micro fins but prior
to this we had replaced the liquid in
our main cooler with distilled water and
a biocide the other one had never really
been used so it wasn't stressed at all
this is what saved us we think from the
degradation that others have reported
online typically after about a year of
use from looking around after some
viewers reached out to us we were able
to obtain about fourteen coolers maybe
fifteen the autopsy though we're not
biologists so we would need to hire a
biology lab if we wanted to confirm what
it was inside of the coolers this part
some of it looks like algae but it could
also just be some kind of other
byproduct of chemistry within the loop
we have no idea if it's algae or isn't
but it does kind of look like it only
two of the coolers we received actually
worked reliably the rest
typically were successful in getting the
pump spinning but then would whine and
overheat while idle in BIOS or at
desktop this is because of the intense
clogging underneath and that's
ultimately what really matters well it's
time lapse some of the coolers that we
took apart and then maybe will slow down
when we get to the truly nasty parts
fair warning if you're eating while
watching this video you might want to
take a break from eating for a moment
every cooler was completely disassembled
including disassembly of the pump block
housing and the microphone housing we
inspected the gasket and even cut some
of the tubes to look for further
blockages though that proves mostly
fruitless because it's it's just it's
too much digging at that point it's not
really going to be successful so our
original cooler had copper corrosion on
the outside of the fill port screws and
the microphone plate something that we
showed previously but a few of these
units had externally exposed corrosion
that's likely
caused from having too little biocide in
the fluid or just mixing of metals with
an insufficient type of biocide it's a
different story when we look internally
every single cooler all of them had
internal copper corrosion inside
alongside the buildup of the green waste
unidentified green waste that proved
insurmountable for the liquid and the
pump and we don't know if that's a lack
of biocide or too little biocide or what
it may be but this is a preventable
problem because you open up basically
any other CLC on the market and they're
not gonna look like this those typically
using propylene glycol with a
potentially a biocide agent mixture to
kill any growth and allows them to mix
metals successfully we scraped some of
the green stuff off and it turned white
after scraping it off and leaving it
alone removing it from the water we're
not quite sure if that indicates what it
might have been but feel free to post
your chemistry or biology knowledge in
the comments below in theory we could
add nitrates to attempt to resurrect
this if we do think it's algae but it's
just there's no point we're not really
in the business of resurrection well not
always but that's not really what we're
going for anyway all that matters is it
doesn't work whatever it is algae or not
there's some kind of nasty in these
coolers and it's gross and it doesn't
allow water to flow and that's the end
of what matters so they're broken and
it's because of gunk buildup further
inspection of the coolers revealed what
we more primarily expected which was a
breakdown of the gasket causing loss of
flow guidance worse yet in most
instances the gasket had become a
hindrance and was causing flow impedance
you can see that there's some
deterioration of that gasket in most of
these coolers and our original cooler
teardown even from earlier this year we
found that the gasket had begun to turn
yellow and copper in color and it hadn't
severely broken down yet for that one
but in some of these you'll see that the
the gaskets a thinner material and you
get some of that clear slimy build up
around the micro fins which we suspect
might have once been part of that rubber
gasket that said our coolers were only
ever in use for a few days of total life
despite having them in our possession
for a few years there's one of them
that's been on our stream system for
ever but it's only used for a few hours
once every month maybe and it's also
been rebuilt by us with different
chemicals inside so we review stuff and
shelve it until we need to revisit it
maybe we put it in a system but the real
use case is obviously daily use in
systems that put these cooler through
thermal cycles and stress which
long-term reviewing would do but it's
not feasible for every product so
thermal cycling will wear almost any
component down faster and because that's
what a real user will put the cooler
through we suspect that this isn't an
isolated incident in fact a quick Google
search reveals that a lot of people had
issues with their NR max tr4 coolers
overheating with age this is probably
why all you have to do is search for
enter max TR for lik tech corrosion and
you'll find a whole bunch of results
something from the anatec forums some
from the line of tech tips forums some
from reddit and they all look similar to
the 14 or so plus or minus that we
opened here today again to really
emphasize this this happened on every
single unit we disassembled just to
varying degrees the unit where we had
replaced the coolant with our own
mixture fared the best despite still
having some corrosion issues but it
really wasn't terrible everything that
saw actual use though was ruined we
found solid chunks of buildup forming in
the entry and exit ports of the pump
block housing with the pump chamber
floor browning pretty heavily a thin
layer of staining and corrosion is okay
for copper but this isn't thin or a
layer it's it's multiple of them and
it's quite thick it's more like a
mountain of gunk that clogs itself into
the inlets the outlets the microphones
the pump housing what we don't know is
how much of it may have been sucked
through the radiator or clogged in the
tubes it's kind of hard to inspect those
when we measured how much fluid each
cooler contained and we'll go more exact
on the numbers in a moment
we found chunks of rock like toughness
varying in color from white to dark
brown the green growth turned white as
it was removed and left to dry and it
makes sense if enter max didn't use a
biocide or the right mixture of water
and glycol or whatever they're doing
that some of this may happen there's
there's metals mixed in here and you
need to use the right liquid mixture to
prevent any
kind of what's going on here we
separately noticed paint chipping off
readily internally for some of the units
something that we also spotted online
and a couple of Google images when
looking for the lick taxi are for
corrosion search phrase the paint is
weakening with time and easily comes off
on first contact for some of the coolers
so this is kind of a more minor issue
than the rest because it's it's not
working anyway and once you've got a
screwdriver in there to scrape it off
you might as well just get a new cooler
to begin with
ultimately we think that the gunk in the
coolers is a combination of a few things
one there's probably some pieces of
gasket deteriorating and ending up built
up around the micro fins it looks like
that's what it is the gaskets do wear
down so that makes sense - there might
be some sort of external sealant working
its way in overtime we're not sure if
that's happening here this is
speculation but we've seen or heard of
things like that in the past where some
of the sealants used around the
connection points the junctions for the
tubes and the barbs can work their way
in but we don't know if that's happening
here and third corrosion is likely
causing some build up over time and
layering as well which is why that's
that's a bit more confirmed you can see
the corrosion coolant color seems
variable we weren't able to firmly
correlate a liquid cooler color with any
particular performance or deterioration
characteristics coolant colors range
from nearly clear to dark yellow and
brown we should note that propylene
glycol mixtures are often colorized
they're often green sometimes they're
purple and cooler masters case so this
doesn't really indicate anything what is
important is that there was matter
floating around in the water each time
we emptied a cooler the non-functioning
coolers had severe blockages that caused
impedance whereas the two functional
units had not yet begun to build up
serious material but they were probably
on their way we noticed that the two
functional units were from the same
batch for what it's worth they both
ended in serial code number five zero
zero three two and five zero zero three
six so if serial then they should be
four units apart that said we also had
units in the the numbers five zero zero
three one and five zero zero three three
and those two failed
this again might not correlate with
findings in any meaningful way we're
5050 there on that badge getting into
our list of serial numbers we had
coolers from grouping seventeen and
eighteen but given that we don't know
how animatics the serial numbers work
they often companies will obfuscate
these so you can't tell exactly how many
they sell we can't firmly state when the
numbers roll over the serial numbers are
likely split into groups later in the
coding as we have units with the last
six digits identified as four or five
zero zero four five zero three four
eight one one and four eight one four
the weight range without fans or
hardware was close to three pounds or
about one point three six kilograms the
weight without the hardware mattered
more to us we measured a maximum weight
of 1367 point nine grams out of all the
coolers noting that this obviously
includes unknown variants of the metal
and radiator and a minimum weight of
nine hundred seventy-one grams for a
notable reduction a standard deviation
was plotted of ninety point eight grams
as for the quit valium it didn't
correlate with the coolers ability to
keep temperatures below t.j.maxx only
two coolers could do this and those
measured at 170 milliliters and 180
milliliters of fluid and were the only
two that were functional out of all of
these these were thermally tested at
load and found to still be good for
cooling performance the others all
failed thermal testing and their volume
ranged from 150 milliliters to 185
milliliters then performance was
basically nothing they were overheating
often in BIOS or at desktop the unit
that weighed the least overall didn't
have the least fluids so the variance
for the radiator the pump and the tubing
weights is too wide to be useful for
determining if permeation or water loss
is occurring simply from way in the
cooler if you're hearing water sloshing
around in your unit that's somewhat
normal and any liquid cooler as you bein
around the radiator just depending on
how much sloshing you're hearing the
reason these units we tested don't cool
isn't because of liquid loss there's
plenty of liquid in pretty much all of
these but it's instead because of the
impedance by blockages and gunk build up
a dramatic says its issue is a vacuum
seal that was improperly sized and
Iraq's claims that the vacuum seal it
used for the initial TR for Lake tech
coolers was built for Intel coolers of
the same family but with much smaller
coin capacity smaller coldplay dat
everything else we don't really have a
way to validate or invalidate that
statement but that was their explanation
to us at Computex and the second version
has been sent out to people who
complained about the first one breaking
the problem we have is that based on the
emails we've received including forwards
of threads with enter max support from
viewers who've had these coolers
probably bought them on our
recommendation what we've seen is that
enter max in a lot of instances doesn't
offer to pay for shipping we emailed
enter max they didn't reply to the rest
of our questions in time for this video
but we emailed them the one question
they did reply to immediately was enter
max claims that it does in fact provide
a shipping label for two-way if that's
true then okay that's really all we want
but making a customer pay for shipping
for something that is doomed from the
start
within an unreasonable usage period is
completely insane that's that's not
really acceptable all of this is clearly
problematic out of the ones we've looked
at we don't have a full sample size but
roughly 1617 coolers total counting our
own is a pretty good sample size it's
not completely crazy some of them are
from the same batches but it appears
that there's different batches between
those and literally all of them had some
form of issue with corrosion or with
gunk buildup we're not sure what that
gunk is it appears to have the
characteristics of algae but we're not
biologists so we can't really confirm
that so we have no current reason to
believe that this won't happen to
basically every cooler there might be
exceptional circumstances where you are
able to get away with using it for the
life of your system and retire the
cooler for something else before it
fails catastrophically hopefully this
can help you out
I've been pressuring them to make sure
they pay for the shipping on all this I
sincerely hope that inner max does
because our view is this if you have an
RMA issue that is either user caused or
it dies outside of the warranty period
or it died under
unreasonable usage circumstances then if
the company is willing to replace the
parts that's step number one paying for
shipping isn't really required under the
circumstances where it's user error it's
out of warranty it's really poor use
case basically user error stuff like
that but if the product was more or less
guaranteed to fail from the start within
a very short period of time like one
year which is unreasonable for a no
liquid cooling product especially then
the shipping should be paid for it's not
fair
to charge a customer especially some of
these people who from the foreign posts
have had issues within three months of
use we believe that it's not fair to
make them pay to ship a product when
they never got a functional one to begin
with that doesn't make any sense the
only reason a company can get away with
that is because the customers outside of
the retailer's protection period and is
now relying on the company to not be
absurd and how it handles the process so
we'll see what happens we'd like to see
some kind of formal recall we obviously
don't have data to support that every
single cooler ever is affected from this
a product family then we should note
that it's just this product family that
we know about right now that is affected
so we can't firmly state yes 100% there
should be recall but we can't say that
we think there should probably be one
based on what we've seen online what
we've received in emails what we've
heard from enter max which basically
acknowledged that all would be affected
when it said it used the wrong
vacuum-seal up until the the remake that
they released and from what we've seen
in our own testing whether or not that
happens whatever as of now what you
should do is ask for replacement if you
want unfortunately in your situation we
would probably just buy a new cooler and
move on but that kind of sucks so maybe
seek them out for a refund or damaged or
something like that but you can figure
that out we can though formally revoked
our recommendation of the coolers it's
very unfortunate that this is the way
that they performed after having such
good performance initially but it's not
a good product anymore so
also as for the rest will hopefully have
a follow-up after Animax responds to us
as for all the radiators we've collected
from this process well we'll keep them
for a bit to maybe do some radiator
variation testing just for fun but
ultimately it will probably take them we
have a recycling contact so in the very
least the coolers will be able to be
melted down back into base parts like
aluminum and reused because that's an
awful lot of aluminum so it's just a bit
contaminated but it's it's it'll melt
off and that's it for this one thank you
for watching and if you want to see more
content like this subscribe because
hopefully we'll have a follow up
depending on enter Max's responses you
can go to store documents access net to
helps out directly and you can go to
patreon.com/scishow and access if you'd
like to help us with future videos like
this one where we do something a bit
different to try and research things
from a consumer standpoint but that'll
be it for this one we'll see you all
next time
[Music]